= NGNX =

*REF: https://medium.com/adrixus/beginners-guide-to-nginx-configuration-files-527fcd6d5efd

=== Install nginx ===
Then we can install nginx using following command
<pre>
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nginx
</pre>


=== Manage the NGINX Process ===
*To stop your web server
<pre>
sudo systemctl stop nginx
</pre>
*To start the web server when it is stopped
<pre>
sudo systemctl start nginx
</pre>
*To stop and then start the service again
<pre>
sudo systemctl restart nginx
</pre>
*If you are simply making configuration changes, NGINX can often reload without dropping connections. To do this, this command can be used
<pre>
sudo systemctl reload nginx
</pre>
*By default, NGINX is configured to start automatically when the server boots. If this is not what you want, you can disable this behavior by typing:
<pre>
sudo systemctl disable nginx
</pre>
*To re-enable the service to start up at boot
<pre>
sudo systemctl enable nginx
</pre>
*To test your config file
<pre>
sudo nginx -t
</pre>

=== Server Logs ===

*/var/log/nginx/access.log: Every request to your web server is recorded in this log fil unless and until NGINX is configured to do otherwise.
*/var/log/nginx/error.log: Every NGINX error will be recorded in this log only.

=== Server Configuration ===

*/etc/nginx: The NGINX configuration directory.
*/etc/nginx/nginx.conf: The main NGINX configuration file.
*/etc/nginx/sites-available/: The directory where per-site “server blocks” can be stored.
*/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/: The directory where enabled per-site “server blocks” are stored.


=== Content ===
*/var/www/html: The actual web content, which by default only consists of the default Nginx page you saw earlier, 
is served out of the /var/www/html directory. This can be changed by altering NGINX configuration files.


=== exemples ===
<pre>
root@li1961-188:/etc/nginx/sites-available# ls -l
total 20
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 2416 Mar 26  2020 default
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 4228 Dec 30 21:55 li1961-188.members.linode.com.conf
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 4228 Dec 30 22:08 meet.idesjardins.com

</pre>
